For decades,
data centers relied on a simple principle to keep servers from melting down.
Push cold air in the front
and blow hot air out the back.
But with the sheer density of modern AI silicon,
air cooling has hit a wall.
The heat cannot and transport fast enough.
Air is simply a terrible conductor of heat.
Liquid can capture and transport thousands of times more efficiently than air.
To support AI clusters pushing 100 kilowatts or
more compared to the standard 12 kilowatt rack.
The OCP Cooling Environments project had to shift the industry standards.
This transition happens in stages.
For facilities that are not ready to pipe water directly into the servers,
we use rear door heat exchangers,
RDX.
These come in two forms.
Passive simply uses the liquid-filled coil.
Active includes a fan wall to assist in the heat transfer,
combining air
and liquid cooling into one.
The incredible success of the Open Reck V3
is driven by 3 main hardware standardizations.
The 21 inch width,
the centralized power buzz bar,
and the liquid manifold stayout zone.
Every ORV3 rec reserves a dedicated standardized
physical space strictly for liquid manifolds.
In an industry with very few liquid standards,
this provides a predictable plug and play architecture for fluid delivery.
This standardized manifold space
perfectly enables direct liquid cooling or DOC.
Metal cold plates with microchannels are mounted right on top of the CPU and GPUs.
Using high reliability zero leak fluid connectors,
the wreck mounted manifold safely pumps a water
and glyco mix directly to the silicon.
This
captures up to 80% of the heat exactly where it's generated.
While liquid cooling maximizes the potential of the standard OV3 rack.
Our ultimate solution requires a completely different physical architecture,
immersiont cooling.
Instead of sliding it into a vertical rack,
entire servers are now completely submerged into
a horizontal tank of nonconductive dialectic fluid.
Because
the fluid physically touches every component,
CPU GPU,
memory and network,
there are no blind mate manifolds or hoses required.
In a single phase,
the fluid absorbs the heat.
In a two-phase,
the extreme heat actually boils the fluid,
and the resulting phase change allows the vapor to
condense and cool the hardware at an unmatched scale.
Whether it's cold plate
or a full immersion tank,
liquid cooling is no longer a science experiment,
it's a survival requirement.
Now the hardware is built,
the specs are published,
the only thing left to do is to deploy it.